Free Knitting Pattern
Lion Brand® Magic Stripes
Magic Stripe Basic Socks
Pattern Number: 30004
Free Knitting Pattern from Lion Brand Yarn
Lion Brand® Magic Stripes
Magic Stripe Basic Socks
Pattern Number: 30004
SKILL LEVEL: Intermediate (Level 3)
SIZE: Adult Medium
(8" measured around leg and foot)
CORRECTIONS: (applied May 19, 2003)
Grafting
Holding the 2 needles parallel with wrong sides of fabric together, thread a blunt tapestry needle
with one of the yarn ends and work as follows: Insert needle as if to purl into the first stitch on
front piece. Insert needle as if to knit into the first stitch on the back piece. Then follow steps 1­4
as outlined below.
1) insert it as if to knit through the first st on the front needle and let the st drop from the
needle.
2) Insert the needle into the second st on the front needle as if to purl and pull the yarn through,
leaving the st on the needle.
3) Insert the needle into the first st on the back needle as if to purl and let it drop from the
needle, then
4) insert it as if to knit through the second st on the back needle and pull the yarn through,
leaving the st on the needle. Repeat 1­4 until all sts are gone. When finished, adjust tension as
necessary. Weave in ends.
MATERIALS
• 310­202 Lion Brand Magic Stripes
Yarn: Sea Blue Stripe *Magic Stripes (Article #310). 75% wool, 25% nylon;
package size: 3.50oz/100.00 gr. (330yds/300m) pull
1 Ball
skeins
• Lion Brand Split Ring Stitch
Markers
• Lion Brand Stitch Holders
• Lion Brand Large­Eye Blunt
Needles (Set of 6)
• Additional Materials
Size 3 (3.25 mm) double­pointed
needles (set of 5)
GAUGE:
28 sts + 40 rows = 4 inches (10 cm) in St st (k every stitch in the round; k on RS, p on WS
when knitting flat). When you match the gauge in a pattern, your project will be the size
specified in the pattern and the materials specified in the pattern will be sufficient. The needle
or hook size called for in the pattern is based on what the designer used, but it is not unusual
for gauge to vary from person to person. If it takes you fewer stitches and rows to make your
swatch, try using a smaller size hook or needles; if more stitches and rows, try a larger size
hook or needles.
Making a Gauge Swatch
STITCH EXPLANATION:
ssk (slip, slip, knit) 1. Slip the next 2 sts as if to knit, one at a time, to right needle. 2. Insert left needle
into fronts of these 2 sts and k them tog.
Grafting
Holding the 2 needles parallel with wrong sides of fabric together, thread a blunt tapestry needle with one of
the yarn ends and work as follows: Insert needle as if to purl into the first stitch on front piece. Insert
needle as if to knit into the first stitch on the back piece. Then follow steps 1­4 as outlined below.
1) insert it as if to knit through the first st on the front needle and let the st drop from the needle.
2) Insert the needle into the second st on the front needle as if to purl and pull the yarn through, leaving
the st on the needle.
3) Insert the needle into the first st on the back needle as if to purl and let it drop from the needle, then
4) insert it as if to knit through the second st on the back needle and pull the yarn through, leaving the st
on the needle. Repeat 1­4 until all sts are gone. When finished, adjust tension as necessary. Weave in ends.
SOCKS
Cuff
Loosely cast on 56 sts. Divide sts evenly onto 4 double pointed needles.
Place marker and join, being careful not to twist sts.
Work in K1, P1 Rib for 1 inches.
Work in St st until piece measures 6" from cast on edge.
Place last 28 sts on a holder (instep sts).
Heel flap (worked back and forth on 28 heel sts only)
Row 1 *Slip 1, k 1; rep from *.
Row 2 *Slip 1, p 1; rep from *.
Repeat Rows 1 and 2 until heel flap measures 2¼" (28 rows), ending with Row 2.
Turn Heel
Row 1 K 17, ssk, k 1, turn.
Row 2 Slip 1, p 7, p2tog, p 1, turn.
Row 3 Slip 1, k 8, ssk, k 1, turn.
Row 4 Slip 1, p 9, p2tog, p 1, turn.
Row 5 Slip 1, k 10, ssk, k 1, turn.
Row 6 Slip 1, p 11, p2tog, p 1, turn.
Continue in this way, working 1 more st between dec until all 28 sts have been worked, ending with a wrong side row –
18 sts.
Pick up sts for heel gussets as follows: Knit 9 sts; place marker (this is now the end of rnd marker); with another needle,
knit 9 sts, pick up 19 sts along edge of heel flap, place marker, (with another needle, knit 14 sts of instep) twice; place
marker, with another needle, pick up 19 sts along edge of heel flap, knit rem 9 sts – 84 sts.
Gusset
Rnd 1 Knit.
Rnd 2 Knit to 3 sts before first marker, k2tog, k1, slip marker, knit to second marker, slip marker, k1, ssk, knit to end of
rnd.
Repeat Rnds 1 and 2 until 56 sts remain.
Note Keep markers in place for toe shaping.
Foot
Work even in St st until foot measures 7½" (or 2" less than desired total length).
Toe shaping
Rnd 1 Knit to 3 sts before first marker, k2tog, k1, slip marker, k1, ssk, knit to 3 sts before second marker, k2tog, k1, slip
marker, k1, ssk, knit to end of rnd.
Rnd 2 Knit.
Repeat Rnds 1 and 2 until 20 sts remain.
Finishing
Knit across first 5 sts of rnd. 10 sts will be for the top of foot and 10 sts will be for the bottom of the foot. Graft remaining
stitches together.
ABBREVIATIONS / REFERENCES
Click for explanation and illustration
beg = begin(s)(ning) dec = decreas(e)(s)(ing)
k = knit p = purl
rem = remain(s)(ing) rep = repeat(s)(ing)
rnd(s) = round(s) RS = right side
St st = Stockinette stitch st(s) = stitch(es)
tog = together WS = wrong side
Learn to knit instructions:http://www.lionbrand.com/learn/how­to­knit
Every effort has been made to have the knitting and crochet instructions accurate and complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual knitters and
crocheters, human errors, or typographical mistakes.
We want your project to be a success! If you need help with this or any other Lion Brand pattern, e­mail support is
available 7 days per week. Just click here to explain your problem and someone will help you!
For thousands of free patterns, visit our website www.LionBrand.com
To order visit our website www.lionbrand.com or call: (800) 258­YARN (9276) any time!
When in New York City, visit the Lion Brand Yarn Studio where we have the largest selection of our yarns
anywhere and over 100 classes and events monthly.
34 West 15th Street, NY, NY 10011
Copyright ©1998­2016 Lion Brand Yarn Company, all rights reserved. No pattern or other material may be reproduced ­­ mechanically,
electronically, or by any other means, including photocopying ­­ without written permission of Lion Brand Yarn Company.
