
An Epiphany Knitwear Original Modern Knitwear Design
2 stitches x 2 rows = 1"x1"
(2.5cm x 2.5cm)
Gauge is not overly
important for this
project. You can use any
super bulky/chunky
yarn you like with the
corresponding needles
to make this scarf
3 x Skeins of
Madelinetosh A.S.A.P.
or Malabrigo Rasta
2 x skeins Manos Del
Uruguay Franca
1 pair 9 mm (US13/UK
00) knitting needles
2 pieces of long scrap
yarn in a contrasting
color
1 tapestry needle
- For the Love of Brioche Scarf -
NEW to brioche knitting, or want to learn brioche?
Then this is the pattern for you! For the Love of Brioche Scarf Knitting Pattern comes with
included video instructions for every step of the way, so that any level of knitter can
knit this pattern, whether you have just begun knitting or have been knitting for years.
Approximately 9” (23cm) wide X 68” (175cm) long after blocking.
I love brioche stitch so much! This scarf is a super chunky/bulky knit scarf! It is fantastic because
you can wrap it multiple times around your neck, or let it hang loosely. The brioche stitches are
very stretchy and bouncy.
You can easily knit this scarf for a child or teen, by casting on fewer stitches and knitting less rows.
If you are using Rasta yarn, use the size 10mm (US 15/UK 000) knitting needles. Gauge is not
overly important for this project, so you can also use any other super chunky/bulky yarn with
recommenced needles.
You can make your scarf longer or shorter by knitting more or less rows. Just keep going in the pat
repeat until you reach your desired length.
CO 18 ST
Row 1 is our set up row for BrK (brioche stitch) – refer to video for step by step instructions for
row 1
Row 1: Slip first ST purlwise *K1, YO, Slip next ST purlwise* rep to last ST, purl 1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d0qlOxgkPqs
Row 2: slip first ST purlwise *BrK, YO, Slip next ST purlwise* rep to last ST, purl 1
https://youtu.be/DRfHWi4w1lk
Repeat row 2 until scarf measures approx: 203 cm (80”) OR you have approx: 89cm (35“) of yarn
left.
BO row: K1, *K st with the YO (BrK st), pass ST over, P1, pass st over* rep to end of row.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Naox3yqHHwo
Tie and knot and weave in your loose ends :)
1. Gently fold item into a small rectangle or square shape
2. Fill sink or tub with tepid (cool-luke warm water). You can add a bit of mild hand wash wool
friendly soap if you like.
3. Place folded item into water. Push the scarf gently down into the water to drown the fibers
completely.
4. Let the item sit in the water for 15-20 mins
5. Pull plug and let tub/sink drain
6. Let item sit in tub/sink over night, naturally draining
as much water a possible out of the fibers.
7. Gently push water out of the fibers with your hands (Do no wring and squeeze fibers roughly –
this will cause felting and shrinkage)
8. Pick up folded item and place it onto a thick layer of towels and roll the item and towel
together (like a jelly roll cake). This gently squeezes out the excess water.
9. Lay item on a dry towel and gently unfold it. Try not to pull or stretch the stitches too much. It
will take 24-48 hours for your item to dry completely, and this is depending on the temperature
of your house/work space.
10. Flip item every 8-12 hours so stitches can dry evenly
11. When fibers are slightly damp, you can then shape the item – to do so, gently pull the top and
bottom at the same time, then do the same for both the sides
12. Let dry completely and then wear :)
Ready For More?
If you enjoyed this pattern, there is plenty more where it came from in my
Etsy, LoveCrafts and Ravelry stores.
Share Your Work!
I love seeing your finished pieces - Please share them with me on Instagram
and Ravelry @epiphanyknitwear
Want To Sell Your
Finished Items?
You may sell your finished items from my
patterns, however I ask that you photo credit
Epiphany Knitwear AKA Crysti-Leta Evans.
#epiphanyknitwear @epiphanyknitwear
© 2021 EpiphanyKnitwear; All Rights Reserved.
All patterns and photographs are the property of EpiphanyKnitwear and are purchased under the agreement that
the patterns and photographs cannot be distributed, copied in part or in whole, re-written, or re-sold without
permission. It is illegal to redistribute, sell or share the pattern in part of in whole, electronically or physically.
