Materials
Stitches
² 2 16” circular needles, one in US size 7 and one in size 8 ² CO – Cast On
needles ² Sts – stitches
² 1 set of US 8 double-pointed needles
² K – Knit
o You can do the whole project on DPNs if you wish, but ² P – Purl
I don’t suggest it
² K2tog – Knit two stitches together (create a knit
² At least 140 yards of worsted weight yarn (though with some
stich just as you normally would, except instead of
clever needle sizing I’ve squeaked out adult-sized hats with 100
slipping your needle through the next stitch, slip it
yards!)
through the next two stitches and knit them
² 1 stitch marker
together. This creates a right-leaning decrease.
² A tapestry needle for weaving in ends
Pattern
CO 100 sts. Join to knit in the round (be careful not to twist!) and place a marker to mark the beginning of the round.
Ribbing Round: [K2, p2] around
Work the ribbing round ten more times (for a total of eleven rounds).
Switch to the larger needles and work one more ribbing round.
Knit stockinette (knit all stitches) around until you’ve got between 6 and 7 inches of material from the cast on edge (or until you
can put the hat on your head – you should be able to fit it on your head snugly, but it should come as low as you want it to when
you wear it. Likely, this means it should cover your ears).
Begin decrease rows, switching to DPNs when the work begins to get snug on the circular needles. When you make this switch, I
suggest placing the stitch marker after the first k2tog stitch you make, so you know which dpn is your first one. You’ll want to
remove the stitch marker entirely in decrease round 14.
Decrease Round 1: [k8, k2tog] around Decrease Round 8: [k5, k2tog] around
Decrease Round 2: K around Decrease Round 9: K around
Decrease Round 3: K around Decrease Round 10: [k4, k2tog] around
Decrease Round 4: [k7, k2tog] around Decrease Round 11: [k3, k2tog] around
Decrease Round 5: K around Decrease Round 12: [k2, k2tog] around
Decrease Round 6: [k6, k2tog] around Decrease Round 13: [k1, k2tog] around
Decrease Round 7: K around Decrease Round 14: [k2tog] around
Finishing
Cut the yarn leaving a tail a few inches long and begin to bind off.
There are many ways to do this. My preferred method is to use my knitting needles; I start by making a loop with the tail over
the lefthand needle, and then passing each stitch in turn over that loop. When you reach the end of a DPN, pull the tail all the
way through.
Another method is to use a crochet hook: starting with the most recently knit stitch, put each stitch onto the hook. You should end
with the first stitch in your round closest to the hook and the tail should be coming out closest to the handle. Then, put the tail
into the hook and use it to pull the tail through all of the sttiches.
Once the tail is through all of your stitches, use a knitting needle to snug up each stitch in the last round, starting with the first
stich in the round. You should end up with the most recently knit stitch being very loose. Pull on the tail gently until this stitch
tightens up also, and then keep pulling to firmly snug up the top hole. (You may wish to do this in two steps, pulling on the tail
between the already-tightened stitches to snug up the terminal stitch and then pulling the tail to do a final tightening. Whatever
works for you!)
Finally, thread the tail through the tapestry needle. Use this needle to pull the tail down through the top of the hat (the navel, or
cat butt, as I’ve heard it referred to – I usually just call it the top lol) and, turning the hat inside out, run the tail through each
stitch on the inside of the top once or twice. This keeps the top hole nice and snug and prevents it from gaping open if it should
loosen. Weave in the tail on the inside, weave in the starting tail, block as desired, and wear with love!
Feel free to do whatever you like with this pattern, just don’t post it for download anywhere, okay? I’d also appreciate it if you credit me in your FO’s
should you decide to sell them, but if not, no worries. You can also tag us on social media (@mollygirlyarn) or using our hashtag, #mollygirlyarn! We
love to share FOs, especially if they’re made using our yarn ;) Rock on, kids! ©MollyGirl Yarn (Angela Cronin) 2013, MollyGirl Yarn LLC 2018
