Free Knitting Pattern
Lion Brand Hometown USA
® ®
Radiant Hat
Pattern Number: L0507
Free Knitting Pattern from Lion Brand Yarn
Lion Brand Hometown USA
® ®
Radiant Hat
Pattern Number: L0507
SKILL LEVEL: Easy
SIZE: One Size
Finished Circumference About 19 in. (48.5 cm)
Note: Hat will stretch to fit a range of sizes.
CORRECTIONS: None as of Dec 16, 2010. To check for later updates, click here.
MATERIALS
• 135-300 Lion Brand Hometown USATM Yarn: Kansas City Wheat
2 Balls
• Lion Brand Knitting Needles Size 15 [10 mm]
• Pom pom Maker
• Large-Eye Blunt Needles (Set of 6)
GAUGE:
8 sts + 10 rows = about 4 in. (10 cm) in St st (k on RS, p on WS). BE SURE TO CHECK YOUR
GAUGE. When you match the gauge in a pattern, your project will be the size specified in the
pattern and the materials specified in the pattern will be sufficient. If it takes you less stitches
and rows to make a 4 in. [10 cm] square, try using a smaller size hook or needles; if more
stitches and rows, try a larger size hook or needles.
NOTES:
Hat is worked, back and forth in rows, from lower edge up to top. The sts of the last row are
gathered for top of Hat, and short sides are seamed to make Hat.
HAT
Cast on 38 sts.
Knit 3 rows.
Beginning with a purl row, work in St st (k on RS, p on WS) for 21 rows.
Next Row: *K2tog; repeat from * to end of row - 19 sts at end of this row.
Cut yarn, leaving a long tail. Thread tail through remaining sts and pull to gather. Knot securely.
FINISHING
Sew Hat seam.
Pom-Pom
Following package directions, make a medium size pom-pom. Tie pom-pom to top of Hat.
Weave in ends.
ABBREVIATIONS / REFERENCES
Click for explanation and illustration
k = knit k2tog = knit 2 together
p = purl RS = right side
St st = Stockinette stitch st(s) = stitch(es)
WS = wrong side
Learn to knit instructions:http://learnToKnit.LionBrand.com
Every effort has been made to have the knitting and crochet instructions accurate and complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual knitters and crocheters,
human errors, or typographical mistakes.
We want your project to be a success! If you need help with this or any other Lion Brand pattern, e-mail support is available 7 days per
week. Just click here to explain your problem and someone will help you!
For thousands of free patterns, visit our website www.LionBrand.com
To order visit our website www.lionbrand.com or call: (800) 258-YARN (9276) any time!
Copyright ©1998-2009 Lion Brand Yarn Company, all rights reserved. No pattern or other material may be reproduced -- mechanically,
electronically, or by any other means, including photocopying -- without written permission of Lion Brand Yarn Company.
