Free Knitting Pattern
Lion Brand® Hometown USA®
Beginner Scarf
Pattern Number: L0084C
Free Knitting Pattern from Lion Brand Yarn
Lion Brand® Hometown USA®
Beginner Scarf
Pattern Number: L0084C
SKILL LEVEL: Advanced Beginner
SIZE: One Size
7 x 66 in. (18 x 167.5 cm)
CORRECTIONS: None as of Nov 17, 2010. To check for later updates, click here.
MATERIALS
• 135-301 Lion Brand Hometown USATM Yarn: Santa Fe Tweed
3 Balls
• Lion Brand Knitting Needles Size 15 [10 mm]
• Large-Eye Blunt Needles (Set of 6)
GAUGE:
9 sts = 4 in. (10 cm) in Garter sitch (knit every row). BE SURE TO CHECK YOUR GAUGE. When you match
the gauge in a pattern, your project will be the size specified in the pattern and the materials specified in
the pattern will be sufficient. If it takes you less stitches and rows to make a 4 in. [10 cm] square, try
using a smaller size hook or needles; if more stitches and rows, try a larger size hook or needles.
SCARF
Cast on 16 stitches.
Work in Garter stitch (knit every row) until about 2 yards (2 meters) of yarn remains. Bind off.
FINISHING
Thread yarn ends into blunt needle, then weave into Scarf.
Learn to knit instructions:http://learnToKnit.LionBrand.com
Every effort has been made to have the knitting and crochet instructions accurate and complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual knitters and crocheters, human errors, or typographical mistakes.
We want your project to be a success! If you need help with this or any other Lion Brand pattern, e-mail
support is available 7 days per week. Just click here to explain your problem and someone will help you!
For thousands of free patterns, visit our website www.LionBrand.com
To order visit our website www.lionbrand.com or call: (800) 258-YARN (9276) any time!
Copyright ©1998-2009 Lion Brand Yarn Company, all rights reserved. No pattern or other material may be reproduced -- mechanically, electronically, or by any
other means, including photocopying -- without written permission of Lion Brand Yarn Company.
