Free Knitting Pattern
Lion Brand® Tweed Stripes
Caramel Swirl Hat
Pattern Number: L0470B
Knitted flat and then seamed, this hat is made with just one skein of Tweed Stripes. To close the top
of the hat, bind off leaving a long tail of yarn. Simply thread that tail through the last row, pull tight to
gather and knot securely.
Free Knitting Pattern from Lion Brand Yarn
Lion Brand® Tweed Stripes
Caramel Swirl Hat
Pattern Number: L0470B
SKILL LEVEL: Beginner
SIZE: One Size
Finished Circumference About 20 in. (51 cm), Hat will stretch to fit a range of sizes.
Finished Length About 10 in. (25.5 cm)
CORRECTIONS: (applied Feb 27, 2012)
The Hat is worked as a simple, Garter stitch (knit every stitch on every row) flat piece.
Once your knit piece measures about 10 in. (25.5 cm) from the beginning, you bind off all your stitches,
and the cut the yarn, leaving a long yarn tail.
Thread this yarn tail into a blunt needle, then weave the blunt needle in and out of the bound-off edge of
the Hat. Pull on this yarn to gather up the bound-off edge of the Hat, then knot it – this makes the top of
the Hat.
Now use the same strand of yarn, still threaded into the blunt needle, to sew the side edges of your knit
piece together, this makes the seam and turns the flat knit piece into the Hat!
MATERIALS
• 753-210 Lion Brand Tweed Stripes Yarn: Lakeside
1 Ball
• Lion Brand Knitting Needles - Size 10 [6 mm]
• Large-Eye Blunt Needles (Set of 6)
GAUGE:
15 stitches = 4 in. (10 cm) in Garter stitch (knit every row). BE SURE TO CHECK YOUR GAUGE. When you
match the gauge in a pattern, your project will be the size specified in the pattern and the materials
specified in the pattern will be sufficient. If it takes you fewer stitches and rows to make a 4 in. [10 cm]
square, try using a smaller size hook or needles; if more stitches and rows, try a larger size hook or
needles.
NOTES:
The Hat is worked as a simple, Garter stitch (knit every stitch on every row) flat piece.
Once your knit piece measures about 10 in. (25.5 cm) from the beginning, you bind off all your stitches,
and the cut the yarn, leaving a long yarn tail.
Thread this yarn tail into a blunt needle, then weave the blunt needle in and out of the bound-off edge of
the Hat. Pull on this yarn to gather up the bound-off edge of the Hat, then knot it – this makes the top of
the Hat.
Now use the same strand of yarn, still threaded into the blunt needle, to sew the side edges of your knit
piece together, this makes the seam and turns the flat knit piece into the Hat!
HAT
Cast on 76 stitches.
Work in Garter stitch (knit every row) until piece measures about 10 in. (25.5 cm). Bind off, leaving a long tail. Thread tail
through last row and pull to gather. Knot securely.
FINISHING
Sew seam. Weave in ends.
Learn to knit instructions:http://learnToKnit.LionBrand.com
Every effort has been made to have the knitting and crochet instructions accurate and complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual knitters and
crocheters, human errors, or typographical mistakes.
*Tweed Stripes (Article #753). 100% Acrylic; package size: 3.00oz/85.00 gr. (144yds/132m) pull skeins
We want your project to be a success! If you need help with this or any other Lion Brand pattern, e-mail support is available 7
days per week. Just click here to explain your problem and someone will help you!
For thousands of free patterns, visit our website www.LionBrand.com
To order visit our website www.lionbrand.com or call: (800) 258-YARN (9276) any time!
Copyright ©1998-2011 Lion Brand Yarn Company, all rights reserved. No pattern or other material may be reproduced -- mechanically, electronically, or by
any other means, including photocopying -- without written permission of Lion Brand Yarn Company.
