Free Knitting Pattern
Lion Brand® Fishermen's WoolTM - Vanna's GlamourTM
Checkers Felted Pillow
Pattern Number: L0219
Free Knitting Pattern from Lion Brand Yarn
Lion Brand® Fishermen's WoolTM - Vanna's GlamourTM
Checkers Felted Pillow
Pattern Number: L0219
SKILL LEVEL: Intermediate
SIZE: One Size
About 16 x 16 in. (40.5 x 40.5 cm), after felting.
CORRECTIONS: None as of Jan 14, 2011. To check for later updates, click here.
MATERIALS
• 150-126 Lion Brand Fishermen's Wool Yarn: Nature's Brown
2 Balls (A)
• 861-149 Lion Brand Vanna's Glamour Yarn: Moonstone
2 Balls (B)
• Lion Brand Knitting Needles- Size 9 [5.5 mm]
• Large-Eye Blunt Needles (Set of 6)
• Additional Materials
Sewing needle and thread
3 buttons, 1 in. (2.5 cm) diameter
Pillow form IMPORTANT: Please read Note #1 below regarding size of pillow form before purchasing a form
Optional, if you choose to make a custom sized pillow form: 1/2 yd. (1/2 meter) of fabric as desired and
fiberfill stuffing
GAUGE:
16 sts = about 4 in. (10 cm) in St st (k on RS, p on WS) before felting.
EXACT GAUGE IS NOT ESSENTIAL TO THIS PROJECT.
The above gauge is provided as a reference - the felting process will affect the finished size.
BE SURE TO CHECK YOUR GAUGE. When you match the gauge in a pattern, your project will be the size
specified in the pattern and the materials specified in the pattern will be sufficient. If it takes you less
stitches and rows to make a 4 in. [10 cm] square, try using a smaller size hook or needles; if more
stitches and rows, try a larger size hook or needles.
NOTES:
1. Due to the nature of the felting process, the size of your finished pieces can vary. We strongly
suggest that you wait until after you've felted and assembled your Pillow to purchase a pillow form.
Choose a form in a size that will fit into your felted piece. If you prefer, you can make a custom size
pillow form. Follow the instructions below to sew the pillow form cover in size desired. Stuff the cover
with fiberfill, then sew closed.
2. Pattern is designed to encourage creativity. Use this pattern as inspiration, your Pillow may not be
exactly the same as that in the photo.
3. Pillow Back is worked in two halves. These halves are overlapped when sewing Pillow together, to
create an envelope-style back through which pillow form can be inserted.
4. Backs and Front of Pillow are sewed together after felting, using sewing thread and a sharp sewing
needle.
BACK (make 2)
With A, cast on 70 sts.
Work in St st (k on RS, p on WS) until piece measures about 13 in. (33 cm) from beginning, end by working a RS
(knit) row. Knit 5 rows for Garter st (knit every row) edge. Bind off.
FRONT
Note: Pillow Front is worked with 1 strand of A and 2 strands of B.
With A, cast on 77 sts.
Knit one row, purl one row.
Begin checkers pattern
Row 1: With A (1 strand) k1, *with B (2 strands) k1, with A (1 strand) k1; rep from * across.
Note: Continue to work with 1 strand of A and 2 strands of B.
Row 2: With A, p1, *with B, p1, with A, p1; rep from * across the row.
Row 3: With B, k1, *with A, k1, with B, k1; rep from * across the row.
Row 4: With A, p1, *with B, p1, with A, p1; rep from * across the row.
Rep Rows 1-4 until piece measures about 19 1/2 in. (50) from beg, end with a Row 2 or 4.
With A, knit one row.
Bind off.
FINISHING
Felting
Wash pieces by machine on a hot wash/cold rinse cycle with detergent and several pieces of clothing to agitate. To
felt additionally, dry by machine on a regular setting until almost dry. Remove from dryer and pull into shape.
Notes:
1. If your felted pieces vary slightly in size, adjustments are provided in Assembly instructions below. Allow pieces to
dry completely.
2. A color yarn will felt, while the B color yarn will not.
Assembly
Note: Assembly instructions that follow are based on a 16 in. (40.5 cm) square felted pillow. Adjust size of purchased
pillow form as necessary to suit the size of your felt pieces.
Arrange Backs on a flat surface with RS facing and Garter edges overlapping slightly to form a 16 x 16 in. (40.5 x
40.5 cm) square. Sew Backs together at overlapped edges.
With WS facing, lay Front onto Back, easing pieces to fit and trimming edges of Backs and/or Front to fit. With sewing
needle and thread, sew Back to Front around entire outside edge.
Turn Pillow to RS. Sew 3 buttons evenly spaced across Garter edge on underlap of Back. On overlap edge of Back,
cut 3 buttonholes. Note: Felted fabric will not ravel, you can simply cut slits for the buttonholes. You do not need to
sew over the edges of the buttonholes (unless you choose to!)
Weave in ends.
Measure your finished, felted cover and purchase the appropriate size pillow form OR follow instructions below to
make a custom sized form.
Custom size pillow form
Cut two pieces of fabric, each 1/2 in. (1.5 cm) larger all around than felted pillow.
With fabric pieces RS together, and using a 1/2 in. (1.5 cm) seam allowance, sew pieces together around 3 sides.
Turn to RS, stuff with fiberfill, and sew remaining side of fabric cover closed.
ABBREVIATIONS / REFERENCES
Click for explanation and illustration
k = knit p = purl
rep = repeat(s)(ing) RS = right side
St st = Stockinette stitch st(s) = stitch(es)
WS = wrong side
Learn to knit instructions:http://learnToKnit.LionBrand.com
Every effort has been made to have the knitting and crochet instructions accurate and complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual
knitters and crocheters, human errors, or typographical mistakes.
We want your project to be a success! If you need help with this or any other Lion Brand pattern, e-mail support is
available 7 days per week. Just click here to explain your problem and someone will help you!
For thousands of free patterns, visit our website www.LionBrand.com
To order visit our website www.lionbrand.com or call: (800) 258-YARN (9276) any time!
