Free Knitting Pattern
Lion Brand® Wool-Ease® Thick & Quick®
Basic Cowl
Pattern Number: L0412AD
Free Knitting Pattern from Lion Brand Yarn
Lion Brand® Wool-Ease® Thick & Quick®
Basic Cowl
Pattern Number: L0412AD
SKILL LEVEL: Easy
SIZE: One Size
Finished Circumference: About 26 in. (64 cm)
Finished Height: About 12 in. (30.5 cm)
CORRECTIONS: None as of Sep 7, 2010. To check for later updates, click here.
MATERIALS
• 640-147 Lion Brand Wool-Ease Thick & Quick Yarn: Eggplant
1 Ball
• Large-Eye Blunt Needles (Set of 6)
• Lion Brand Stitch Markers
• Additional Materials
Circular knitting needle size 15 (10 mm), 16 in. (40.5 cm) long
GAUGE:
8 sts + 12 rows = 4 in. (10 cm) in St st worked in the rnd (k every rnd). BE SURE TO
CHECK YOUR GAUGE. When you match the gauge in a pattern, your project will be the size
specified in the pattern and the materials specified in the pattern will be sufficient. If it
takes you less stitches and rows to make a 4 in. [10 cm] square, try using a smaller size
hook or needles; if more stitches and rows, try a larger size hook or needles.
STITCH EXPLANATION:
K2, p2 Rib (worked in the rnd, multiple of 4 sts)
Rnd 1: *K2, p2; rep from * around.
Rep Rnd 1 for K2, p2 Rib.
COWL
Cast on 52 sts. Place marker for beginning of rnd. Join by working the first st on left hand needle with the working
yarn from the right hand needle and being careful not to twist sts.
Work in K2, p2 Rib for 3 rnds.
Change to St st worked in the rnd (k every rnd) knit 30 rnds.
Last 3 Rnds: Work in K2, p2 Rib for 3 rnds.
Bind off.
FINISHING
Weave in ends.
ABBREVIATIONS / REFERENCES
Click for explanation and illustration
k = knit p = purl
rep = repeat(s)(ing) rnd(s) = round(s)
St st = Stockinette stitch st(s) = stitch(es)
tog = together
Learn to knit instructions:http://learnToKnit.LionBrand.com
Every effort has been made to have the knitting and crochet instructions accurate and complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual
knitters and crocheters, human errors, or typographical mistakes.
We want your project to be a success! If you need help with this or any other Lion Brand pattern, e-mail support is
available 7 days per week. Just click here to explain your problem and someone will help you!
For thousands of free patterns, visit our website www.LionBrand.com
To order visit our website www.lionbrand.com or call: (800) 258-YARN (9276) any time!
Copyright ©1998-2009 Lion Brand Yarn Company, all rights reserved. No pattern or other material may be reproduced -- mechanically,
electronically, or by any other means, including photocopying -- without written permission of Lion Brand Yarn Company.
