Free Knitting Pattern
Lion Brand LB Collection Organic Wool
® ®
Bette Hat
Pattern Number: 90504
Free Knitting Pattern from Lion Brand Yarn
Lion Brand LB Collection Organic Wool
® ®
Bette Hat
Pattern Number: 90504
SKILL LEVEL: Intermediate
SIZE: One Size
Finished circumference About 21 in. (53.5 cm), hat will stretch to fit a range of sizes.
CORRECTIONS: (applied )
STITCH EXPLANATION
K into st below Insert right needle into st one row below the next st on left needle. Wrap yarn
and pull through st and allow st to drop from left needle.
Note: The st just made will have 2 strands wrapped around its base (one from the st that was
on the left needle, and one from the st that was one row below).
MATERIALS
• 481-178 Lion Brand LB Collection Organic Wool: Dark Teal
1 Ball
• Lion Brand Double-Pointed Needles - Size 8
• Lion Brand Double-Pointed Needles - Size 9
• Lion Brand Split Ring Stitch Markers
• Large-Eye Blunt Needles (Set of 6)
GAUGE:
14 sts = 4 in. (10 cm) with larger needles in Thermal st. BE SURE TO CHECK YOUR GAUGE.
When you match the gauge in a pattern, your project will be the size specified in the pattern
and the materials specified in the pattern will be sufficient. If it takes you less stitches and rows
to make a 4 in. [10 cm] square, try using a smaller size hook or needles; if more stitches and
rows, try a larger size hook or needles.
STITCH EXPLANATION:
K into st below Insert right needle into st one row below the next st on left needle. Wrap yarn and pull through st
and allow st to drop from left needle.
Note: The st just made will have 2 strands wrapped around its base (one from the st that was on the left needle, and
one from the st that was one row below).
PATTERN STITCHES
K2, p2 Rib (worked in the rnd over a multiple of 4 sts)
Rnd 1: *K2, p2; rep from * around.
Rnd 2: K the knit sts and p the purl sts.
Rep Rnd 2 for K2, p2 Rib.
Thermal Stitch (worked in the rnd over an odd number of sts)
Note: In alternate rnds of Thermal st, every other st is worked into the st below. This creates a dense fabric with an
interesting surface texture.
Rnd 1: Knit.
Rnd 2: K1, *k into st below (see Stitch Explanation above for how to do this), k1; rep from * around.
Rnd 3: Knit.
Rnd 4: K1, *k1, k into st below; rep from * around.
Rep Rnds 1-4 for Thermal st.
HAT
With smaller double pointed needles, cast on 76 sts.
Divide sts onto 4 needles - 19 sts on each needle. Place marker for beg of rnd. Join, being careful not to twist sts, by knitting the first st
from left needle onto right needle.
Work in K2, p2 Rib worked in the rnd until piece measures 6 in. (15 cm) from beg.
Change to larger double pointed needles.
Next Rnd: K2tog, k23, k2tog, k23, k2tog, k24 - 73 sts at end of this rnd.
Begin Thermal Stitch
Beg with Rnd 1, work in Thermal st until piece measures 9 in. (23 cm) from beg, end with Rnd 4 of Thermal st pattern.
Shape Crown
Rnd 1: *K8, k2tog; rep from * to last 3 sts, k 3 - 66 sts.
Rnd 2: Work Row 2 of Thermal st.
Rnd 3: *K9, k2tog; rep from * around - 60 sts.
Rnd 4: Work Row 4 of Thermal st.
Rnd 5: *K8, k2tog; rep from * around - 54 sts.
Rnd 6: Work Row 2 of Thermal st.
Rnd 7: *K7, k2tog; rep from * around - 48 sts.
Rnd 8: Work Row 4 of Thermal st.
Rnd 9: *K6, k2tog; rep from * around - 42 sts.
Rnd 10: Work Row 2 of Thermal st.
Rnd 11: *K2tog; rep from * around - 21 sts.
Cut yarn, leaving a long tail. Thread tail through remaining sts and pull tight to gather. Knot securely.
FINISHING
Weave in ends.
ABBREVIATIONS / REFERENCES
Click for explanation and illustration
k = knit k2tog = knit 2 together
p = purl rep = repeat(s)(ing)
rnd(s) = round(s) st(s) = stitch(es)
Learn to knit instructions:http://learnToKnit.LionBrand.com
Every effort has been made to have the knitting and crochet instructions accurate and complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual knitters and crocheters,
human errors, or typographical mistakes.
We want your project to be a success! If you need help with this or any other Lion Brand pattern, e-mail support is available 7 days per
week. Just click here to explain your problem and someone will help you!
For thousands of free patterns, visit our website www.LionBrand.com
To order visit our website www.lionbrand.com or call: (800) 258-YARN (9276) any time!
Copyright ©1998-2009 Lion Brand Yarn Company, all rights reserved. No pattern or other material may be reproduced -- mechanically,
electronically, or by any other means, including photocopying -- without written permission of Lion Brand Yarn Company.
