Free Knitting Pattern
Lion Brand® Wool-Ease® Thick & Quick®
Basic Hat
Pattern Number: L0410AD
Free Knitting Pattern from Lion Brand Yarn
Lion Brand® Wool-Ease® Thick & Quick®
Basic Hat
Pattern Number: L0410AD
SKILL LEVEL: Easy +
SIZE: One Size
Finished Circumference: About 19 in. (48 cm)
Hat will stretch to fit a range of sizes.
CORRECTIONS: None as of Sep 7, 2010. To check for later updates, click here.
MATERIALS
• 640-502 Lion Brand Wool-Ease Thick & Quick Yarn: Mesquite
1 Ball
• Lion Brand Knitting Needles Size 15 [10 mm]
• Pom pom Maker
• Large-Eye Blunt Needles (Set of 6)
GAUGE:
8 sts + 10 rows = 4 in. (10 cm) in St st (k on RS, p on WS). BE SURE TO CHECK YOUR
GAUGE. When you match the gauge in a pattern, your project will be the size specified in
the pattern and the materials specified in the pattern will be sufficient. If it takes you less
stitches and rows to make a 4 in. [10 cm] square, try using a smaller size hook or needles;
if more stitches and rows, try a larger size hook or needles.
HAT
Cast on 38 sts.
Knit 3 rows.
Beginning with a purl row, work in St st (k on RS, p on WS) for 21 rows.
Next Row: *K2tog, repeat from * across – 19 sts.
Cut yarn, leaving a long tail.
Thread tail through remaining sts, pull tightly to gather and knot to secure.
FINISHING
Seam Hat.
Weave in ends.
Optional Pom-Pom
Following package instructions, make a pom-pom. Tie pom-pom to Hat. Weave in ends.
ABBREVIATIONS / REFERENCES
Click for explanation and illustration
k = knit k2tog = knit 2 together
p = purl RS = right side
St st = Stockinette stitch st(s) = stitch(es)
tog = together WS = wrong side
Learn to knit instructions:http://learnToKnit.LionBrand.com
Every effort has been made to have the knitting and crochet instructions accurate and complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual
knitters and crocheters, human errors, or typographical mistakes.
We want your project to be a success! If you need help with this or any other Lion Brand pattern, e-mail support is
available 7 days per week. Just click here to explain your problem and someone will help you!
For thousands of free patterns, visit our website www.LionBrand.com
To order visit our website www.lionbrand.com or call: (800) 258-YARN (9276) any time!
Copyright ©1998-2009 Lion Brand Yarn Company, all rights reserved. No pattern or other material may be reproduced -- mechanically,
electronically, or by any other means, including photocopying -- without written permission of Lion Brand Yarn Company.
