Free Knitting Pattern
Lion Brand® Holiday Homespun®
Candy Cane Scarf
Pattern Number: 80912AD
This sparkly scarf is perfect for the Christmas holiday season.
Free Knitting Pattern from Lion Brand Yarn
Lion Brand® Holiday Homespun®
Candy Cane Scarf
Pattern Number: 80912AD
SKILL LEVEL: Easy
SIZE: One Size
About 7 x 70 in. (17.5 x 178 cm), not including Fringe
CORRECTIONS: None as of Jun 9, 2009. To check for later updates, click here.
MATERIALS
• 791-201 Lion Brand Holiday Homespun Yarn: Berry
1 Ball (A)
• 791-200 Lion Brand Holiday Homespun Yarn: Starlight
1 Ball (B)
• Lion Brand Knitting Needles - Size 10 [6 mm]
• Large-Eye Blunt Needles (Set of 6)
GAUGE:
12 sts = 4 in. (10 cm) in Garter stitch (knit every row). BE SURE TO CHECK YOUR GAUGE.
When you match the gauge in a pattern, your project will be the size specified in the
pattern and the materials specified in the pattern will be sufficient. If it takes you less
stitches and rows to make a 4 in. [10 cm] square, try using a smaller size hook or needles;
if more stitches and rows, try a larger size hook or needles.
NOTES:
When creating fringe using Homespun, please note that because of the texture of the yarn
the fringe will fray when cut. If you prefer a non-frayed look you can knot the ends, knit or
crochet a fringe, or use hairspray or fray check.
SCARF
Note: Carry unused color along side of work.
With A, cast on 21 stitches.
Rows 1 and 2: With A, knit.
Rows 3 and 4: With B, knit.
Rep Rows 1-4 until piece measures about 70 in. (178 cm) from beginning.
Bind off.
FINISHING
Fringe (make 9 each with A and B)
For each Fringe, cast on 12 stitches, then turn and bind off. Cut yarn, leaving a long end. Alternating colors, tie 9
Fringes to each end of Scarf. Weave in ends.
Learn to knit instructions:http://learnToKnit.LionBrand.com
Every effort has been made to have the knitting and crochet instructions accurate and complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual
knitters and crocheters, human errors, or typographical mistakes.
We want your project to be a success! If you need help with this or any other Lion Brand pattern, e-mail support is
available 7 days per week. Just click here to explain your problem and someone will help you!
For thousands of free patterns, visit our website www.LionBrand.com
To order visit our website www.lionbrand.com or call: (800) 258-YARN (9276) any time!
Copyright ©1998-2009 Lion Brand Yarn Company, all rights reserved. No pattern or other material may be reproduced -- mechanically,
electronically, or by any other means, including photocopying -- without written permission of Lion Brand Yarn Company.
