Free Knitting Pattern
Lion Brand Wool-Ease Thick & Quick
® ® ®
Briarcliff Cowl
Pattern Number: 90573AD
With winter's "it" accessory, the cowl, you'll be warm and chic!
Free Knitting Pattern from Lion Brand Yarn
Lion Brand Wool-Ease Thick & Quick
® ® ®
Briarcliff Cowl
Pattern Number: 90573AD
SKILL LEVEL: Easy +
SIZE: One Size
Finished Circumference About 30 in. (76 cm)
Finished Height About 18 in. (46 cm)
CORRECTIONS: None as of Nov 23, 2009. To check for later updates, click here.
MATERIALS
• 640-098 Lion Brand Wool-Ease Thick & Quick Yarn: Linen
2 Balls
• Lion Brand Stitch Markers
• Large-Eyed Blunt Needles
• Additional Materials
 Circular knitting needle size 13 (9 mm), 24 in. (61 cm)
GAUGE:
9 sts = 4 in. (10 cm) in St st worked in the rnd (k every rnd). BE SURE TO CHECK
YOUR GAUGE. When you match the gauge in a pattern, your project will be the size
specified in the pattern and the materials specified in the pattern will be sufficient. If it
takes you less stitches and rows to make a 4 in. [10 cm] square, try using a smaller
size hook or needles; if more stitches and rows, try a larger size hook or needles.
STITCH EXPLANATION:
K2, p2 Rib (worked in the rnd, multiple of 4 sts)
Rnd 1: *K2, p2; rep from * around.
Rep Rnd 1 for K2, p2 Rib.
COWL
Cast on 68 sts. Join, being careful not to twist sts. Place marker for beg of rnd.
Work in K2, p2 Rib for 3 rnds.
Change to St st worked in the rnd (k every rnd), and work until piece measures about 17 in. (43 cm) from
beg.
Work in K2, p2 Rib for 3 rnds.
Bind off.
FINISHING
Weave in ends.
ABBREVIATIONS / REFERENCES
Click for explanation and illustration
beg = begin(s)(ning) k = knit
p = purl rep = repeat(s)(ing)
rnd(s) = round(s) St st = Stockinette stitch
st(s) = stitch(es)
Learn to knit instructions:http://learnToKnit.LionBrand.com
Every effort has been made to have the knitting and crochet instructions accurate and complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual
knitters and crocheters, human errors, or typographical mistakes.
We want your project to be a success! If you need help with this or any other Lion Brand pattern, e-mail
support is available 7 days per week. Just click here to explain your problem and someone will help you!
For thousands of free patterns, visit our website www.LionBrand.com
To order visit our website www.lionbrand.com or call: (800) 258-YARN (9276) any time!
Copyright ©1998-2009 Lion Brand Yarn Company, all rights reserved. No pattern or other material may be reproduced --
mechanically, electronically, or by any other means, including photocopying -- without written permission of Lion Brand Yarn
Company.
